# Overview

Just some simple exercise for kapp. 
There is already an interactive lab for kapp that [Carvel supports](https://carvel.dev/kapp/#playground),
so this is going to be specific to just help with troubleshooting.

It's assumed you have a cluster running, but if you don't, use kind:

`kind create cluster`

## Exercise 1

Just do a simple `kubectl apply` but with `kapp` with the `nginx.yaml` file.

Please name your app=nginx.

## Exercise 2

Let's explore how kapp works under the hook a little.
Look at the ConfigMaps generated by kapp.

Do a `kubectl get cm -o yaml` on the two ConfigMaps generated by the kapp deploy.

Does the data.spec section look familiar?

## Exercise 3

Kapp deploy `nginx-v2.yaml` using the `-c` flag.

What did the `-c` flag do?

Now inspect the configmaps once again.

Remember to use the *same* app name=nginx.

## Exercise 4

Let's use a different way to look at kapp apps rather than configmaps:

`kapp inspect -a nginx`

Add a --tree to it: `kapp inspect -a nginx --tree`

Use the `kapp inspect` command to generate raw yaml of all the objects we get via inspect.

## Ending Thoughts

Two other cool commands to leave you with:

* `kapp list` can give you a quick view of all `kapp deploy`ed objects.
* `kapp logs -f` can stream logs for all pods part of the `kapp` app. 
    * The nginx containers we deployed don't produce logs, hence no exercise for it here.
    * It's similar to `kubectl logs deployment/my-cool-app` but if your `kapp` app has multiple deployments, you get all the logs! 
    Could be good, could be bad.